---
draft: false
slug: Newsletter Feb 2025
title: CRA Newsletter April, 2025
date: 2025-04-01T05:00:00.000Z
translationKey: NewsletterApril2025
categories:
  - Newsletters
tags:
  - "2025"
thumbnail: /img/csra_aprs-logo.png
lead: ""
description: " "
toc: true
---
Greetings CUPE Retirees,


What a time we are in. We’re watching to the south of us where not only
have public sector workers faced wholesale firings, but have also seen
their collective bargaining rights — indeed their right to belong to a
union — stripped away. And that’s not the half of it.

 

Our very existence as a nation is in the crosshairs. By the time you
receive this newsletter, we should be getting close to a federal
election day that will shape our country for the next few years at
least. While we want to prevent a government that will take us down the
road paved by our American neighbours, we also know that the old ways —
cuts to revenues and services, privatization, and further environmental
degradation — will not take us to a better future.

 

We need an honest voice for workers in the House of Commons. We need the
NDP, who have already proved that they get things done for working
people, like dental care, child care, and the beginnings of pharmacare.
A lot of us are thinking about voting Liberal, maybe for the first time,
so we don’t end up with an even worse party in government. It’s a choice
that calls for careful consideration.

 

If you live in a riding with an NDP incumbent or one where the NDP
usually lands in second place after the Conservatives, please don’t
throw your vote away to a Liberal candidate. We need to keep that voice
that puts workers first to be strong enough to be heard.

 

## **Speaking of elections**



This is also an election year for CSRA, when members — almost 700 of you
— choose a president, vice-president, treasurer, secretary, and chapter
representatives for a three-year term that begins January 1, 2026. For
the executive committee, after two terms each Pat Daley, president, and
Shelly Gordon, vice-president, and, after three terms, secretary Carole
Lefebvre have all decided not to re-offer. Leanne MacMillan intends to
stand again for treasurer.

 

The first order of business is to appoint an elections committee. The
responsibilities of the committee can be found
at <https://cuperetirees.ca/csra-election-guidelines/>. If you are
interested, please let us know at <cuperetirees@gmail.com>.

 

We’d like to get the process underway in May, since it takes several
months to get in nominations, mail out and tabulate ballots. That timing
should allow for an in-person transition meeting of old and new
executives during the CUPE National convention in Toronto, October 6-10.

 

There was a vacancy on the current executive board when Peter Tartsch
stepped down as Saskatchewan chapter representative. Happily, Andrew
Huculak has stepped forward to fill out the rest of the term and
participated in a recent Zoom meeting of the entire board. Our
association is in healthy financial shape. Chapter representatives have
been looking for opportunities to meet with members to exchange news and
ideas.

 

## **Solidarity**

 

At the request of the Canadian Union of Postal Workers, we sent a letter
in February to Commissioner William Kaplan who is reviewing the current
bargaining dispute with Canada Post. Out of the myriad issues, we
focussed on some of the problems seniors have with the move to community
mailboxes. We called for a return to door-to-door delivery in order to
improve mail service and address seniors’ safety and possible social
isolation, as recommended by CUPW.

 

We also wrote to the former federal minister for seniors to support the
National Pensioners Federation and the Canadian Coalition Against
Ageism, who are among the many voices calling for an enhanced United
Nations declaration on the rights of older persons.

 

Just a reminder that we now have CSRA flags for use at rallies, on
picket lines, information tables and anywhere else that calls for a CUPE
staff retirees’ presence. Contact your chapter representative
or <cuperetirees@gmail.com> if you would like to use one.

 

## **Benefits and bargaining**



First the good news: GreenShield is now covering the cost of the RSV
vaccine for those aged 75 and older. If you paid out of pocket for the
shot after November 2024, you may be eligible for reimbursement.
Unfortunately, in the bad news department, this does not help anyone who
paid for the vaccine before last November.

 

Over the course of the last year we have asked members what we should be
suggesting to the staff unions when it comes to bargaining proposals.
Benefits are the main concern as coverage has not increased for many
services such as massage. As well, there is concern there is not
coverage for some alternative health care providers that members may be
seeking out as the shortage of family doctors grows.

 

A new question has come up about the use of botox to treat TMJ and other
pain conditions. It is currently not covered in our plan. If you have
had to take this treatment and pay out of pocket, we would like to hear
from you as soon as possible.

 

We will be writing to the staff unions shortly to list our suggestions
for bargaining, including the discrepancies from province to province in
coverage for those aged 65 and over, which we have been trying to
address for some years.

 

In closing, give some thought to whether you’re interested in offering
for one of the positions that will be up for election later this year.
Feel free to contact any one of us if you would like to learn about what
is involved.


## **Comings & Goings**


Please welcome the following new members:

 

NS
- Wanda Power

 

NB
- Ralph McBride

 

QC

- Pierrette Beaudoin

- François Bellemare

- Jean-Pierre Proulx

      Édith Cardin

 

ON
- Elizabeth Dandy
- Walter Devoe
- Karen Ducharme
- Judith Lanthier
- Charles Van Vliet


SK
- Don Moran
- Mary Ellen Wood

AB
- Debra Gervais-Arbane

- Tammy Laurin
- Kirk Oates



With condolences to colleagues, friends and family, we bid farewell to:


ON 

- Beverly Drane
- Albéric Mbayahaga – National

 
AB
- Dave Werlin

 

## **Important Contacts**



For change of address, change in beneficiaries, or any other matters,
please be sure to contact Pensions at CUPE National Office. Human
Resources does not maintain files on retirees. One member reports that
they recently learned that when your spouse or dependents lose coverage
of another benefits plan, so that benefits are no longer coordinated but
only covered by GreenShield, you need to contact the CUPE benefits staff
and fill out a form.

 

- **CSRA**: <cuperetirees@gmail.com>

- **Pensions**: Nathalie Lavictoire <nlavictoire@cupe.ca>,
613-212-4251

- **Benefits**: Fanie
Corriveau-Leclerc, [**fcorriveau-leclerc@cupe.ca**](mailto:fcorriveau-leclerc@cupe.ca),
613-237-1590

- **EAP**  Timon Azmier, **<tazmier@cupeeap.ca>.**

 

In solidarity,

 

Pat Daley, President

Shelly Gordon, Vice-President

Leanne MacMillan, Treasurer

Carole Lefebvre, Secretary
