---
draft: false
slug: Newsletter Feb 2024
title: CRA Newsletter February, 2024
date: 2024-02-01T05:00:00.000Z
translationKey: NewsletterFeb2024
categories:
  - Newsletters
tags:
  - "2024"
thumbnail: /img/csra_aprs-logo.png
lead: ""
description: " "
---


Greetings Sisters and Brothers,


We're starting to feel some stirrings of spring in southern Ontario,
where this is being written. But should we welcome it or worry that the
early warm weather is just another instance of the strange winter many
of us have been experiencing?


The good news out of this winter comes in the form of a new federal
dental care program. While we're not directly affected, thanks to the
benefits that many of you helped to win, just about everyone knows
family or friends who will benefit and get care that they may have been
putting off.

Now we need a push for a universal public pharmacare program. You can
send a letter to your MP at <https://cupe.ca/act-now-pharmacare>.


## **Annual Membership fees for new members**



Some **new** members may have been confused by our emails asking them to
e-transfer their \$25 annual fee because it wasn't deducted from their
January payment. CUPE Pension staff must submit names to RBC for
automatic deduction in late fall. So, if you joined in November,
December, January or February, your 2024 fee wasn't deducted. Going
forward you'll see it come off your January pension cheque each year.

 

## **Donations**

In February, your executive approved 2024 donations to the same
organizations we supported in the past: Council of Canadians, Canadian
Centre for Policy Alternatives, IRIS, Canadian Health Coalition, Seniors
for Climate Action Now, and Justice for Workers.

There are still funds available to use throughout the year. If you have
a donation suggestion, please send it to <cuperetirees@gmail.com>.
Suggested organizations should advocate on behalf of seniors and
retirees in matters relating to issues such as, but not limited to: 


a\. Public and workplace pensions

b\. Public health, including the expansion of public health for mental, dental, eye and other care

c\. Alternative economic and fiscal policy 

d\. Saving the climate from environmental degradation

e\. Housing

The full policy will be available
at [cuperetirees.ca](http://cuperetirees.ca/).

## **Getting Together**



Our 2024 budget also includes funds to support some of the costs
involved in organizing regional, or even area, meetings. We don't have
the means to support individual expenses but can help with the costs of
meetings rooms, etc.  Members who met last year in Quebec City, at both
the SCFP Quebec and CUPE National conventions, and in Toronto during the
CUPE Ontario convention enjoyed getting together to talk about common
concerns (benefits!) and actions as well as just touching base.

If you want to help organize a regional meeting, either in person or
through the CSRA Zoom account, please get in touch with your chapter
representative. You can find the complete list and contact emails
at [cuperetirees.ca](http://cuperetirees.ca/).

## **Webinars**

We're also looking for ideas for future webinars. Last November, with
our credit union, we were able to present a webinar on fraud. If you
missed it, you can still watch. Look for the post on the CUPE Retirees
or Retraitées et retraités du SCFP Facebook pages.


## **Coming & Going**

There wasn't a sudden spate of retirements; it's been almost a year
since we published these lists. Please join us in welcoming the
following new members:


BC       Kelly Dussin

            Dan Gawthrop

 

AB       Gayle Bunch

            Lisa McPherson

 

SK       Deborah Mihial

            Alex Lenko

 

MB      Carmelle Chartier

            Sheree Capar

 

ON       Russ Armstrong

            Stephane Lalonde

            Gus Oliveira

            Dan Scheibli

 

QC       Louise L'Heureux

            Yves Lalonde

            Réal Leboeuf

            Jean-Guy Simard

            Daniel Bernier

 

NL       Edward White

 

National Office            Catherine Louli

                                    Lynne Hotte

                                    Robert Lamoureux

                                    Gavin Leeb

                                    Nicole Monohan

                                    Wendy Morrison

                                    Louise Payette

                                    Anne Healy

                                    Heather Farrow

 

With condolences to colleagues, friends and family, we bid farewell to:

 

 AB       Royle Harris

  

 SK       Douglas Lavallie

  

 ON       Margart E. Irwin

             Linda Jewett

             Ken McClelland

  

 Airlines  
              Anu Lawson

  

 QC       Claude Hétu

             Denise Quintal

  

 NB       Zoel Savoie

 

In solidarity,

 

Pat Daley, President

Shelly Gordon, Vice-President

Leanne McMillan, Treasurer

Carole Lefebvre, Secretary


