---
slug: Newsletter March 2020
title: CRA Newsletter October 31, 2023
date: 2023-10-31T05:00:00.000Z
translationKey: NewsletterOct2023
categories:
  - Newsletters
tags:
  - "2023"
thumbnail: /img/csra_aprs-logo.png
lead: ""
description: " "
---

**CSRA Newsletter - October 31, 2023**

Subject: Fraud Prevention Webinar and More from Your CUPE Staff Retirees
Association

Dear Sisters and Brothers,

Mark your calendar now for a new webinar on fraud prevention presented
by your CUPE Staff Retirees Association and CUMIS, the insurance company
for our credit union. With so many scams coming through email, texts,
web sites and even real estate fraud, this webinar will provide tips and
reminders for recognizing fraud.

Date: Friday, November 24, 2023

1:00 pm English

2:00 pm French

The webinar will be presented via Zoom. We will send a link closer to
the date so keep an eye out for the email.

**Member Meeting, CUPE National Convention**

The large number of retirees invited to CUPE's first post-pandemic,
in-person convention made it the perfect venue to meet with members on
Tuesday, October 24. More than 50 members from across the country were
in the room with close to 10 online. (Lesson learned: start planning
Zoom access earlier.)

Nancy Parker, retiree representative on the pension Joint Board of
Trustees, presented a thorough report explaining the process for setting
the CPI increase each year. One important piece of information: as a
result of the indexing error found in this year's audit, in the future
we won't see an increase in benefits until the fall after the audit is
completed.

Tracy Glynn, Canadian Health Coalition, presented the current campaign
for universal pharmacare. Thanks to all our efforts in years past, CUPE
retirees have full benefits, but we all have friends or family who are
not so fortunate and struggle to afford their medications. There's a
need to act quickly. As the federal Liberals prepare legislation, you
can send a letter at
[**[pharmacare.canadianlabour.ca/]{.underline}**](http://pharmacare.canadianlabour.ca/).
Sign on to the Coalition's Health & Hope 2025 campaign at
[**[healthcoalition.ca/project/healthhope-2025/]{.underline}**](http://healthcoalition.ca).

We also heard from Michael MacIsaac, president of the Congress of Union
Retirees of Canada. Our association is a CURC affiliate. Individual
memberships are also available. CURC has several priorities including
the CUPW campaign for senior check-ins by letter carriers, working with
the Federation of Canadian Municipalities on creating senior-friendly
communities, and joining with other organizations to promote the
creation of a UN declaration on the rights of older persons. More
information is available at
[**[unionretiree.ca]{.underline}**](http://unionretiree.ca).

The current plan by the United Conservative party in Alberta to leave
the Canada Pension Plan and go it alone was explained by our Treasurer
Leanne MacMillan, who participated recently in a call with unions. This
is a grave threat to all Canadians outside of Quebec, which has its own
longstanding pension plan, yet it really is up to Albertans themselves
to counter their provincial government. For the rest of us, we can do
our best to defend the CPP in our own circles.

We reported on our interest in continuing to promote regional member
meetings either in person or online. We'll provide the logistical and
financial support that we can.

Finally, there were some good interventions on the need to maintain
active communication among ourselves and with all the staff unions to
ensure that retiree interests are not forgotten.

**Time for fun**

The day continued with recognition of retirees on the convention floor
in the afternoon and ended with a reception in a room with a beautiful
view of Quebec and the St. Lawrence River. Thanks to the Canadian Staff
Union for its financial support of the reception. President Vickie
Houston and the table officers brought greetings. She also explained
that the usual retiree lunch at convention did not happen this year
simply because of the lack of suitable rooms. CUPE's growth may well
mean that Quebec City can no longer accommodate a national convention.

**CSU Bursary**

For retired CSU members, the deadline to apply for a 2023-24 bursary for
your children or grandchildren is December 7. If you did not receive the
notice from CSU, it means they don't have your email address. You can
send your contact information to Retiree Representative Cheryl Colborne
at [[retiree@csu-scp.ca]{.underline}](mailto:retiree@csu-scp.ca) with
authorization for her to forward it to CSU.

**Important contacts**

For news in between our CSRA newsletters, sign up on Facebook to the
[[CUPE
Retirees]{.underline}](https://www.facebook.com/groups/417137408489152/)
group or to [[Retraitées et retraités du
SCFP]{.underline}](https://www.facebook.com/groups/402963953416114/).

**Pensions** Includes changes of address, other personal information as
well as pension matters:

Nathalie Lavictoire
[[nlavictoire@cupe.ca]{.underline}](mailto:nlavictoire@cupe.ca),
613-212-4251

**Benefits** Fanie Corriveau-Leclerc,
[**[fcorriveau-leclerc@cupe.ca]{.underline}**](mailto:fcorriveau-leclerc@cupe.ca),
613-237-1590

**CSRA
[[cuperetirees@gmail.com]{.underline}](mailto:cuperetirees@gmail.com)**

[**[cuperetirees.ca]{.underline}**](http://cuperetirees.ca)

In solidarity,

Pat Daley, President; Shelly Gordon, Vice-President; Leanne MacMillan,
Treasurer; Carole Lefebvre, Secretary
